Competitive advantage is one
of the key and basic concepts
of business strategy.
It is also very easy to understand.
What is a competitive advantage?
Well, because it’s a feature that
allows you to get some better
results than the rest.
It puts you ahead of others,
right?
It is a very broad concept, it is
a concept that can be used in the
business world, it can be used
at a personal level, it can be
considered that there are countries
that have competitive advantages
over others, right?
And speaking of the business world,
because the competitive advantages are innumerable.
I will give you a few examples,
just to illustrate it,
so you can get a little
idea.
You can have like Harvard, for example,
a very powerful brand that allows
you, in this case, to make any program
you launch to the market, well,
because it is a guaranteed success.
Or you may have, in the case of Apple,
it is very similar.
In addition to the brand, it has
millions of users with a great loyalty
who absolutely trust Apple,
which allows it to make products,
other products, a success.
This is a clear competitive advantage.
Or, for example, if you have
the restaurant with the best
location in the city, with views
like those we have on screen,
because it is clear that it is
a competitive advantage.
Or if you are able to offer a
superior customer experience at
the point of sale.
And in the end, customers choose you for
that.
Competitive advantages can also
come from operations, from
internal operations.
If you are able, as in the case
of Inditex, that since you identify
a trend, design that product, make
the designs, create the product
and the finished product is
in the points of sale around
the world and has passed
a record time, as we will
analyze later, because it is a
competitive advantage.
The case of Amazon.
Amazon has many competitive advantages,
but one of them is that it already
has millions and millions of people
around the world who are accustomed,
who have already paid with
card, that their data is recorded
within the marketplace
and absolutely faithful.
Any new product that Amazon launches,
it’s very easy to grow like that.
As I said, it has very competitive
advantages because the logistics
network that allows you to buy
and tomorrow you get the product,
because it is very competitive
advantage.
It can also come from people.
If you have the best talent, if
you have the best managers, or if
you are a restaurant and you have
the best cooks, or in the case
of football, then it
is clear too.
This is something that puts you
ahead of your competitors.
Well, as we have seen, competitive
advantage is a very simple concept
that already ensures you make
the idea.
What we’re going to do now is let’
s define three criteria to consider
whether something is a competitive
advantage or not, right?
They are mainly three and it
is the first one you are able to
put in value, that is, to get
a performance of that advantage
you have or that feature.
You will understand it with an example.
If you are the smartest student
in your class but you suspend
everything because you don’t study,
because despite having a competition,
a ability, well, because in this
case you don’t get any performance,
therefore it’s not a competitive
advantage.
In the case of companies you
have to convert, you have to move
into that you are able to earn
market share by stealing customers
from your competitors, to grow
more than others or to get
higher returns, higher profitabilities,
forgiveness.
In this case, it is a competitive advantage.
It has to be sustainable,
it has to be sustainable.
The competitive advantage you
have created must allow you
to that performance over a period
of time.
If we talked about Harvard,
for example, it is clear that
this brand will allow you to
sell programs with high
profitability and being a market
success for many years.
And it has to be hard to imitate
because if what you have can easily
be copied by anyone, it
obviously ceases to be a competitive
advantage.